SAM THOROGOOD: Hi, everyone.
It's Sam here.
On the last episode of the
Santa Tracker Developer Diary
for this year, I want to talk
about the tracker itself.
Now, this is what
you see if you go
to Santa Tracker
on the 24th or 25th
as Santa is flying around
the world delivering presents
to all the good boys and girls.
Now, the tracker is made
up of a couple of things.
It's made up of the map itself.
It's made up of the way we
get data from the server
to show where Santa is.
And we also want to reuse the
map throughout the site, which
is pretty cool.
Let's have a look.
So this is the tracker itself.
We can see Santa fly
around the world here.
We can see where
he currently is.
He's in San Francisco.
And you can see that he's
not delivered any presents,
because this is
actually a trial run.
We can see a few other
things too, like the weather,
and we can also play
some games down here.
So unlike the village,
which is very interactive,
we keep this simple and show
the games in a card layout.
There's also a few secret games
that aren't normally visible
but I just made available
for the tracker itself,
like this trivia game here.
We also have a few
videos to watch down
at the bottom and a social feed.
So we fetch Santa's
route in one of two ways
based on whether you're on the
Android client or on the web.
Obviously, this is
a series about web,
but on Android we use the
Firebase Remote Config
API, which is
actually really nice
as it allows us to send
down a JSON blob to clients
and actually update
that fairly rapidly.
That's really important
because if Santa changes
his route on the fly,
we can get a new version
almost immediately.
We do something very
similar on the web.
We've got an API server,
which is internal,
which kind of emulates
the same thing.
But in our case, we poll
that every minute or so.
And so this sync method here
on the Santa server's object
actually does that work for us.
So this is called
every minute or so.
And it requests our info object.
And so that returns things
like the current status,
any upgrades that are
acquired by the client.
Let's say your site
is out of date.
And then it also includes
things like the route.
So we then use the
route method here,
which builds on that
data we already fetched,
and we fetch the data,
this route URL here.
As you can see, we're actually
storing it in local storage
as well.
The route's quite large.
When it's not gzipped,
it's about 500k.
When it's gzipped,
it's much smaller.
But we still want to store
that in local storage
rather than fetching
it every time
a user navigates
back to the site.
And that JSON we store
in Firebase Storage,
Santa uploads it there when
a new route is submitted.
So how do we then
use that route?
So inside our new tracker scene,
as opposed to our old tracker
as we've got some great
naming right here,
we actually call the Santa
sync method when sync happens.
And so that method,
if we can find it,
does a couple of things.
It basically takes the data
that we have and does a few more
updates.
There's a bit of a chain
here as we can see.
So as a relative Santa sync,
we update Santa's state,
which basically means
placing Santa on the map.
So that's really nice, right?
You can see this is actually
a really simple call here.
We say, this map, santaLatLng,
equals data.position, which
is Santa's current position.
But actually, what's really cool
is while you always obviously
see the map here with everything
around, all the little cards
and stuff like that,
we can actually
use this as a reusable
component, which
I think is really interesting.
So let's look at this
tracker demo page.
All this does is take a
reusable tracker map element
and places it on the page here.
So of course that's
not very interesting.
We don't know where Santa is.
We haven't hooked
it up to the API.
But I think this is really cool.
Because as someone
who works on the web,
I can take this
component and reuse it
in a bunch of places on my site.
And in Santa
Tracker, we do that.
We use the map obviously
in the tracker itself.
But we also use
a cutdown version
of the map in our
Cast experience.
Because Chromecast is quite
an underpowered device.
We don't want to do
too much on that.
So we only want to
show the map on Santa.
We don't want to show
other information
about the social feed or other
videos or things like that.
So the way we can
use this is, so I've
created a thing called map,
which is the object here.
And I can say
map.santaLatLng equals--
let's pick a location.
I also need to set
map.santaHeading
equals-- let's say 120.
So great, this turns out to
be the middle of the ocean.
But we can see that Santa is
flying in a certain direction.
We can even turn him around.
So this is quite cute.
And we love the idea that we
can reuse this custom element
anywhere on our site.
And this is something
we get through Polymer.
So while this is obviously
a very simple example,
this tracker map here
is very powerful.
And it allows us to wrap
up a bunch of the behavior
and a bunch of the
stuff we want to do
with Santa Tracker
every year, like
show the markers of
where Santa's been
and show his route line.
So every year, Santa visits
about 500 different cities
around the world, give or take.
However, he is a bit
magical and turns out
he wants to deliver presents
to everybody, no matter
where you are.
What we actually do
is take your GeoIP.
Now GeoIP is pretty coarse.
It's only about
city level detail.
But we use that to
make sure Santa visits
your house, no matter what.
So if you're up late
on the 24th this year,
make sure you check out
Santa Tracker, because Santa
might just be above your place.
Thanks for watching this year.
Have a happy holidays.
And I hope Santa is good to you.
See you next year.
You can subscribe to the Google
Chrome Developers channel
down here or check out some
other great videos along here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]